All right, so welcome to the second
video of system design section.
And in this particular video, let's
understand how are we going
to solve this typical problem of
not able to handle so many requests.
Okay, so what is the fundamental
reason that you are not
able to handle the request?
Because you have a lot
of users, right?
The problem is that your machine
is just a 2 CPU and 4GB RAM.
And it was able to maybe handle
80 requests, it was able
to handle 90 requests, but.
But it eventually crashed
on 100 request.
So Piyush, if this.
Let's, let's do some
of the calculations, right?
Some, estimates.
This machine configuration, that
is a 2 CPU, 4GB RAM machine
can handle these many requests.
What if I spend some more money,
okay, And I double my configuration?
This time I can use a 4 CPU.
Okay, let's say a 4 CPU machine
and I can use an 8GB of RAM.
So what I'm basically doing is
I'm doubling on my resources.
I am spending some money
on the infrastructure, I
am upgrading my system.
And now can I say that my system can
actually handle somewhat, okay,
somewhat around, 170 to 200 request.
Can I say that?
Of course I can say that, right?
So that means when my users
increased and my server got
crashed, what should I do?
I should spend some money because
of course the business
is also increasing, right?
So now what I will do is I will
do 8gb of RAM and 4gb of CPU.
So this solves my problem.
Now, hundred users or maybe 110
users is not a problem for me
because now my system is tuned.
Now my system is capable
of handling 170 to 200 request.
So that means this was
a good solution to have
spend some more money.
And that's it.
You have your server up and running,
but now still,
still, still, still, still.
The problem is that if you
have 200 users or more than
200 users, like 250 users, your
server is going to crash.
Now what will you do?
Okay, you will say when I reach to
that threshold, that is 200 users,
I'll again spend some money.
And this time what I'm going
to do is I'm going to do 8 CPU
and I'm going to do 16GB RAM.
And this time I can maybe
handle 400 to, 500 users.
This is your new benchmark, right?
So now you have finally
spent some more money.
So now your machine is
even more upgraded.
You are, you know,
upgrading your machine.
You're spending some more money
on the machine, and now
you can handle 500 users.
So initially you were just able
to handle 80 to 90 users and now you
are able to handle 400 to 500 users.
And it's an upgrade, right?
It's a scale, right?
So this is one way
of scaling your servers.
And this technique is
known as vertical scaling.
So this is known as vertical scaling.
So what you basically do
in the vertical scaling is you add
more power slash resources
to the system or to the server.
So what is a vertical scaling?
That what you do, you basically spend
more money on the infrastructure,
you add more power
and resources to, to the server.
So this is your vertical scaling.
Now the pro is very good, right?
The pro there.
What is the pro of this
particular scaling stuff?
That you have more power, okay,
you have more power on server.
But there is a drawback,
There is a trade off.
There is a con of this particular
mechanism of this vertical scaling.
Number one, tell me one thing.
Maybe you have a flash sale, maybe
you have a sale on near Diwali
where you have a lot of users, you
are expecting a lot of users.
What will happen is you are
expecting some 3000 users, okay?
So for 3000 users you need more
CPU and more RAM.
So okay, you, you go
to the market, you invest more
in the CPU and and RAM.
So now you have 32
CPUs, which is a lot.
And now you have a 128GB RAM.
So now your system can even
handle more than 3,000 users.
That's good.
But on a typical day when the sale
is not there, on an average
you only have 200 users, let's say,
or 170 users or 150 users.
So do you, so do you really think
that this is, this money that
you're spending is worth it?
Because once in a year you need
this particular scale, that is
of 3,000 users, right?
But once you have already
upgraded your machine, once you
have already invested on it.
Now on an average day, on a typical
day you only have 150 users, right?
But you still have 32 CPUs
and 128GB RAM running.
So the problem is that
overall cost is more.
Okay?
So that means you are always
prepared for the best case.
You are always prepared for the sale.
So even if you are not running
a sale, even if you have just 80
to 90 users, you still have 32 CPU
and 128GB RAM, which is an overkill.
So most of your system
is sitting idle.
You are not using the system
to the full potential.
So this is one con that
you have second con is.
Okay, what happens Even if you
have upgraded too much,
you have 32 CPUs, which is a lot.
Okay?
You have invested good amount
of money and you have 128 GB of RAM.
But for some technical reasons,
this machine has some fault.
I'm not saying you that
it is not scalable.
I'm not saying you that it
cannot handle the load.
It can handle the load.
But for some reasons, something
technical failure happened
in this particular machine.
Some circuit went off, there was,
some kind of mishap, there was
some kind of power issue, or maybe
the motherboard got some spark.
Okay?
This machine is dead.
So now what happens?
Even if you have spent a lot
of money on your resources, right?
of money on your resources,
your server is still down.
So you have a single point
of failure here, okay.
That if this server goes down,
there's a single point of failure.
Even though this machine was
a big, giant machine,
it was a very powerful machine.
But because of some technical
issues, this machine is off.
And now you have a single
point of failure.
So this is your vertical scaling.
Okay?
So.
So in this particular video, we have
understood what is vertical scaling.
So let's see how can we solve
these particular problems
in the next scaling strategy.